an attempt at the United Nations to
agree a humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza
has failed tonight as the US opposed the
proposal the UK abstained from the vote
this was the scene in New York earlier
despite 13 Nations voting for a
ceasefire the US veto means the
resolution failed to pass earlier the UN
Secretary General warned that the people
of Gaza are at Breaking Point Israel
says any ceasefire would cement hamas's
control of Gaza Hamas is designated a
terrorist organization by many countries
including the UK meanwhile more video
has emerged showing dozens of
Palestinian men detained by Israel the
footage verified by the BBC shows them
stripped to their underwear kneeling on
the ground and being guarded by Israeli
soldiers it's understood that some of
the men have since been released we'll
speak to our correspondent at the UN
shortly but first here's our
International editor Jeremy
boen
Gaza is at Breaking Point says the UN
almost 2 million people have been driven
from their homes by Israeli
forces in dear albala the mosque was
bombed with such force that the yaffa
hospital next door was put out of action
the US warned Israel again that it was
killing too many civilians targeted or
indiscriminate attacks on civilians are
a war crime Israel said it launched 450
strikes in the last 24
[Music]
hours it sent out these pictures of its
men assaulting Hamas inside a school
near Gaza
City another video released by Hamas
shows a dead hostage and what it said
was the bloody aftermath of a failed
Israeli raid to free
him at the UN in New York York the
Secretary General requested an immediate
ceasefire telling the security Council
that herass violations of the laws of
war did not excuse
Israel's there is a high risk of the
total collapse of the humanitarian
support system in Gaza which would have
devastating
consequences we anticipate that it would
result in a complete breakdown of public
order and increased pressure for Mass
displacement into Egypt
I fear the consequences could be
devastating for the security of the
entire
region but the US rejected his warnings
and vetoed the ceasefire resolution it
is giving Israel more time to destroy
Hamas our goal should not simply be to
stop the war for today it should be to
end the war forever break the cycle of
unceasing violence and build something
stronger in Gaza and across the Middle
East so that history does not keep
repeating itself itself back in Gaza
Israeli troops posted more video on
social media of their Roundup of
hundreds of Palestinian men allegedly
Hamas suspects the men were ordered to
leave their families at a un shelter
stripped to their underwear and had the
hands tied before being driven away for
interrogation Israel still hasn't beaten
Hamas in Northern Gaza fighting
continues in an urban Wasteland the BBC
traced the video to Israeli soldiers who
deleted it after it went
viral the way hundreds of thousands of
Palestinians in Gaza were being forced
to live was filmed by a freelance
journalist working for the BBC ATA
abukar is Sheltering in a tent made of
plastic sheets in the grounds of a
hospital in De albala in the middle area
of
Gaza gaza's people are at serious risk
of starvation and famine according to
the Secretary General he said the UN
could no longer help them under current
condition itions at Abu said he's trying
to get his kids to forget the good food
they used to
like I don't know what to tell you the
only thing we have to eat is tea with no
sugar the only three words we hear from
our children are hungry cold thirsty and
we would rather die than see them get
sick the Israelis destroyed the historic
Omar mosque in Gaza City they are
ignoring us warnings that so much
destruction and death could push
Palestinians into the arms of Hamas and
the US cannot block a ceasefire
indefinitely Jeremy Bowen BBC News
Jerusalem well let's get the latest from
New York where that vote by the UN
Security Council has taken place in the
last couple of hours our correspondent
Neda toori is there for us nedda this
was a rare bid by the Secretary General
to get a ceasefire resolution what's
been the reaction to the US
veto that's absolutely right Rita a rare
push there for the Secretary General to
get the security Council to demand an
immediate ceasefire by invoking article
99 of the UN Charter a power granted to
secretary generals but rarely used it
hasn't been used in decades but
nevertheless what we saw here at the UN
was a quick reaction to the secretary
General's call with 97 Nations
sponsoring a draft resolution calling
for a ceasefire but the United States
cutting a lonely figure and showing its
growing isolation by being the sole
member of the council to veto and block
that resolution from being passed now
the United States has accepted Israel's
argument that a ceasefire would only
help Hamas but much of the world
disagrees in fact 13 of the 15 members
voted in favor of this resolution
the UK abstained and they very much uh
these members who voted in favor of this
resolution echoed the secretary
General's words that this was a breaking
point for Gaza and they must uphold
their responsibility to help the
Palestinian civilians NADA thank you na
toik reporting there